Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Petter? Are you okay?
Shall we utop?
Hey...
Bro? Stay awake.
You fall out, you're out of here.
Anuwer me, Petter,
or I'll take you out.
Okay.
Just take him out
if that's what you want.
What's going on out there?
What's up with Leif?
They won't take you out.
They're yelling at each other.
Bro? Pia wants a word with you.
- Huh?
- Petter?
Hi.
Put the cap back on.
You're not registering on the EEG.
- Why don't you come in and put it on?
- Very nice.
Slight change of plans.
Step into the other chamber.
- Now don't break his heart, sir.
- No, not Pete. You.
- I'm sorry, Mike. I have to take you out.
- What are you talking about?
- What did I do?
- Just do as you're told.
Get into the other chamber,
or you're off the program.
Leif?
Leif? Why was he taken out?
Close the hatch. We're cleaning out
the American gas mix.
I feel like shit.
Continue pressurisation.
We're almost there.
495...
Is this normal?
- There's nothing normal about this.
- 496...
That politician's here with a cake.
Who let that bird in here?
- There's an albatross in here.
- No, it's a seagull.
It's an albatross.
- I've seen them in the Gulf of Mexico.
- The wings are different.
Leif?
What are they talking about?
- Goddammit, they're hallucinating.
- Jørgen?
- Can you see the bird?
- What bird?
Five hundred!
My lungs are on fire.
Let us handle the gas next time, okay?
Congratulations from the directorate.
You're the first Norwegians
to be pressurised to 500 metres.
Recently, a world record for simulated
deep diving was set here.
- Does it feel good?
- Yeah, it does.
Look at him!
What are the biggest challenges
when diving this deep?
I'm on TV.
In very deep water, the air basically
turns to poison inside the body.
A gas needed to be developed to help
the divers breathe at such depths.
What's working with the Americans like?
It's uncle!
Exciting. They've got
a lot of experience in this.
One of the diving teams is Norwegian.
I think we're in control of the process.
Norwegian authorities wish to
pipe the petroleum ashore.
But first the divers must prove
they can work at such depths.
Petter will go on a new test dive led by
the USS company Deep Sea Diving tomorrow.
320 metres below the surface, they'll
join two pipe sections in a habitat.
What will it be like to reach
the ocean floor?
It's what we've been training for.
Why we've done this experiment.
So we're looking forward to it.
In the USS, Ronald Reagan has...
- Did you see dad on TV?
- No, just uncle.
- It wasn't exactly about you.
- Sure it was!
He's the one they interviewed.
- Yeah, but it wasn't about you.
- You're not mad at me?
This next dive will be my last.
- Because?
- I'm gonna become a diving supervisor.
- I'll make loads of money.
- Been drinking paint?
We make ten times what they do.
We don't. They get to see their family
twenty times as much as we do.
Is this Maria's idea?
Nope.
- You're gonna dive until you're sixty?
- Sure I will.
- You live on a boat. Got no family.
- I've got you.
But no kids.
All that will change.
Then you'll see what I mean.
Look ahead, Petter.
- Get everybody below, alright?
- Okay.
Welcome aboard!
Let's get below.
Give me a minute.
Fellows, straight on.
Boss? From your wife.
- And from Marianne.
- What about me?
There's no doubt this is
the right group of men.
But we still have to prove it
to the ministry.
That's the point
of this verification dive.
So you'll be at 320 metres.
Three-man teams, twelve-hour shifts.
Focus on the job in front of you, and
we'll all end up making a lot of money.
Who goes out first?
- The Norwegians.
- Why?
Cause I'm saving you for cleanup, ace.
- First in the Norway Trench.
- English, motherfucker.
He said you're an idiot.
Team one, enter the bell.
Going for a seal.
How are you feeling, boys?
- Feeling good.
- Never felt better.
Pete? You're first.
Jørgen will stay in the bell. Good luck!
You're the big TV star, you know.
Open gas supply divers.
- Gas open.
- You got the balls for this?
Diver one out of the bell.
Diver one leaving the basket.
Petter?
Have you landed?
That's one small step for man,
but a huge leap for an ordinary guy
from the projects.
Diver two leaving the basket.
Do you have a visual?
I've got visual.
Okay. You can enter the habitat.
Diver one inside the habitat.
Diver two inside the habitat.
Start pressurisation.
Thirty, forty, forty-two, forty-six...
- Closing the valve.
- Now the other side.
Forward pipe.
We're blowing out the water.
- There's water seeping in.
- Okay.
- Is it a lot?
- No, it's not much.
We just need more pressure.
We'll fix it. Ready?
- Increase pressure by five bars.
- Increasing pressure.
- Shut the valve, Petter!
- Turn it off!
Knut? Petter?
Report, dammit!
Petter? We've lost contact!
- I'm here.
- Focus on finding Knut!
Can you see him?
Knut! Knut!
- He's here!
- Is he conscious?
Bro! Bro!
Can you get him to the surface?
- His mask is smashed! It's smashed!
- Just take it off.
- I'm removing his mask.
- Check his pulse.
Bro! Knut!
Petter? Is he breathing?
He's breathing!
Tell us what's going on!
Don't move!
We'll send Jørgen down to help you.
He won't make it!
I'm giving him my mask.
I'm giving him my mask. Bro. Bro!
I'm coming out now.
- You won't make it back to the bell!
- Draw in the umbilical.
No! You'll never make it
without a mask!
You hear what I'm saying, Petter? No!
Petter?
- Jørgen? Pull in Petter's umbilical.
- Copy that. Pulling them in now.
Where's Knut?!
Flood the bell, dammit!
Flooding the bell.
I've got him!
I've got him.
- You've got him?
- Got him!
- Is he breathing?
- Bro?
He's not breathing!
Petter! Give him CPR.
Come on, bro!
Hurry! Get us up!
Close the hatch.
- I've got a seal.
- Get us up!
You're not going anywhere!
Not anywhere, bro!
Bell on surface!
- I blacked out. What the hell happened?
- I don't know. I don't know!
Trunk is equalised.
Get the hypo from
the equipment lock, Jørgen.
Push it hard and deep.
As deep as it goes. Now, Petter!
Nothing's happening.
Come on, bro. Come on...
That's enough.
Petter...
It's too late.
What happened?
I don't know.
Maria? We're ready to go.
Ferris?
Get me out of here, man.
As quick as you can.
Put me on the emergency table.
Pete, I can't take that chance. I'm afraid
you'll get decompression sickness.
Sorry, you gotta stay in there
two more weeks.
Did you notice anything weird
about the breathing gas?
Or hear anything?
I blacked out.
There must have been a gas cut.
I know.
Petter? How are you feeling?
Jørgen says there was a cut.
This is your responsibility, Trond.
- Careful now, Petter.
- Petter...
I never said that.
You said you heard how
I stopped breathing.
Listen, you need some sleep.
Do yourself a favour. Take those pills.
I wanna speak to Ferris.
- Ferris isn't here.
- Where is he?
We had a cut. I had no gas.
I was out of it before the explosion.
- Relax. We'll figure it out.
- We both know who controlled the gas!
- That's not true. I kept an eye on it.
- Then what do you think happened?
You inflated the plug until it blew up.
Because I passed out! Explain that!
- Okay, this conversation is over.
- Explain it!
Petter? My condolences.
You want Knut's briefcase?
Trond?
Ferris?
I'll talk to you later.
- Where's Trond?
- He's not on board.
- I sent him home.
- Why?
This touches everybody.
Trond as well.
Look, Pete. We can have the best
technology, take every precaution.
But still...
Mistakes get made, don't they?
Listen to me. Nothing will bring
your brother back. Speculating,
pointing fingers, won't do anybody
any good. Not Maria, not Mark,
and certainly not the project.
There's a hell of a lot at stake here.
I'll take care of the press.
Jeger!
Jeger! Hi.
- My condolences.
- What's the directorate gonna do?
About Trond Edvardsen.
He screwed up the breathing gas.
- If there's any ambiguity...
- That cut should never have happened.
We're going to investigate it thoroughly.
I promise. Look here.
Call me anytime.
This isn't what I ask for.
It's not what I want.
- No, I understand.
- So what are you gonna do about it?
Mortal accidents are complex events.
The supervisor disagrees.
I know what he thinks.
I made no mistakes.
Well, let's see what
the police have to say.
Maria!
Here.
It needs new batteries.
Unscrew the bottom.
- I'll get by.
- It wasn't my fault.
It was an accident, okay?
Hey! I wanna see the recording from
the accident. The video tape.
I'd love to show it to you.
- But there isn't any.
- "There isn't any"?
Have you erased it?
There wasn't any tape
in the recorder.
- You expect me to believe that?
- Ask Leif, Ronald, Ferris.
- I'll ask Jørgen. Where is he?
- On sick leave.
Sick leave? Why?
- I guess he's ill.
- Just let me see the tape.
- He said there's no tape.
- Shut the fuck up!
Petter.
You over inflated the plug.
You can't change that.
Hey! Jørgen!
Hi.
- Trond says you're sick.
- I've been a bit off.
- You're not sick. You're working.
- I'm feeling better now.
Has someone told you to
keep your mouth shut?
Jørgen! Answer me.
Why won't Trond show me the tape?
- What are you talking about?
- What happened?
I had a cut! You heard it!
Jørgen!
Jørgen?
Jørgen! Hey!
Jørgen!
- Something's wrong with Jørgen!
- Another seizure?
Hi. I need a word with Leif
about Jørgen.
- He gets seizures.
- I know he's on...
Did he get one in the bell
while monitoring the gas?
I don't know anything about that.
- Are you back?
- No.
Dimwit. Put it out!
We have hydrogen right behind you.
Leif? Hi.
How long have you
known Jørgen's sick?
What's wrong with him?
- Health is a private matter.
- His dad says he's had several seizures.
- I need to do another EEG test on you.
- Because?
Because it's myjob.
Has Jørgen taken another test?
- Leif?
- Yeah.
Did you know Jørgen was sick when
you sent him down on that dive?
- It wasn't my call.
- What do you mean?
- Ferris would like to talk to you.
- Leif?
Now.
Ronald!
I'd like to see Jørgen's EEG test.
We'll discuss this in my office.
Rats seem to stand pressure
better than us.
Okay. Jørgen's EEG test.
See? Normal.
I need a copy.
Staff medical info is confidential.
It belongs to Deep Sea Diving.
They co-funded the project.
Pete, please. If there was something
wrong here, I'd tell you. Honestly.
Tests like these...
They're really open to interpretation.
We also judge divers
on their performance.
It really comes down to how you feel.
So how do you feel?
Fine.
Hey, Ronald?
Ronald?
Are you there?
You can read stuff into the tests,
like Leif did.
- You can find anything.
- It says that Jørgen's ill.
They're normal.
Only Leif sees the connection.
- What connection? Jørgen's sick.
- Yeah.
But medically speaking, these charts
don't say so. It's Leif's interpretation.
You sent a sick diver down there.
Leif obviously knew.
He wrote the conclusion in hindsight.
This is a bad time for you to get fired.
They're preparing a new test dive.
- I won't dive now.
- You have to.
The Petroleum Directorate needs to keep
one Norwegian diver in the program.
- Thank you.
- Thank you for meeting us.
- We need to talk.
- Do you have an appointment?
- Talk to my secretary.
- I've something to show you.
The police are doing
what they can to...
Jørgen manned the bell at the time.
He's sick. It says so here.
- Isn't this confidential?
- Just take a look.
I can't interpret this. Can you?
I think he caused my brother's death.
He gets seizures. I've seen it.
- Have you shown this to anyone?
- No.
I'll follow it up. But we need
to conclude the verification dives.
The mission isn't over yet.
I won't dive until I know what
happened to my brother.
Right. I understand.
- Hi!
- Hi.
- Uncle?
- The police called.
Hi. It's like this:
Jørgen Heimland has taken
responsibility for the accident.
He admits that he shut
the wrong valve in the diving bell.
- He did what? Could you repeat that?
- He cut your breathing gas.
- Okay. How's that?
- Human error.
But was it a seizure?
The report doesn't mention any seizure.
You don't know what happened?
You can file a civil lawsuit
if you want to.
- No.
- Why not?
I couldn't bear it.
- What does the report say?
- It says what I just said.
- Is Jørgen here?
- Jørgen's gone to Spain.
Tell him I wanna talk to him.
Are you alright?
What happened?
You tried to kill me.
That's what happened.
Couldn't avoid you.
You broke into me.
You flipped that car on your own.
Who asked you to steal these EEG tests?
Was it Leif?
Where's mine? I want mine.
Where the fuck is mine?
- Why do you want it?
- It could end my career!
You know your friend, Leif?
He's a fucking hack.
Says I'm neurologically damaged.
Petter? I need to talk to you.
What are you doing here?
Were you here earlier?
What do you mean?
We need to talk.
- What are you doing here?
- I'm gonna find out how Knut died.
Okay.
And you think I've got the answer?
The gas Ronald's given you
contains a secret component.
And the goddamn Americans
won't say what it is.
I made him stop using it
at the research centre.
But they call the shots at sea.
So Knut promised to help us.
With what?
He was gonna take a sample
of the American gas in the bell.
- Didn't he tell you?
- What are you saying?
What sort of bullshit is that?
Did you find a gas sample
in Knut's briefcase?
- I'd know it if he was taking a sample.
- Ronald's drugging you with that gas.
You wobbled around like a drunkard.
That's why you passed out.
- Jørgen's taken the blame.
- He'd never turn off the gas.
Listen to this. Listen to Knut's voice.
He didn't pass out.
What's that?
The tape from the accident.
- Trond said there wasn't any tape.
- Trond?
I took the tape.
- Okay, you can turn it off now.
- It's enough now, Petter.
- Petter, stop it! I'm stuck here!
- Petter?
Knut has no problems with the gas.
- You were on the same feed.
- Shut the valve, Petter!
Knut! Petter!
- Report, goddammit!
- Petter! We've lost contact!
Find the gas sample,
and I'll reveal who did this.
Lift it up and get this part in there.
That's it. Great!
Martin? Remember
the flashlight I gave you?
- You know where it is?
- In a suitcase.
- Your suitcase?
- I think so.
- Where is it?
- In my room.
What's that?
It's a gas sample.
Leif?
Hello?
Leif...
Leif?
Hey!
Hey! Hey!
Leif died as a result of
a morphine overdose,
according to the police. The medical
examiner has yet to verify that, but...
I know some of you were aware
of the courageous efforts
that Leif made to battle his addiction.
He was supposed to be in rehab this
week. Unfortunately he never checked in.
The family would obviously prefer
that the manner of his death
not become public knowledge.
I found Knut's gas cylinder.
It's up to each one of us to help
protect a colleague's reputation.
Let's observe a moment of silence
in memory of our friend, Leif Lindberg.
I hope he's found some peace.
You want me to test it?
It's empty.
I have to know what's in
that goddamn gas.
If I go on the next dive,
bring back a gas sample,
will you test it when I get back?
Not after what you've been through.
You need a break.
And you're physically not prepared.
They've been training for weeks.
Pete, that's my final decision.
To the right.
- There are no Norwegian divers left.
- That's why you have to go.
- The Americans refuse to let me dive.
- Who's stopping you?
The diving physician. Ronald.
- What's he saying?
- That I'm not prepared.
That I'm not fit. I don't know.
The pipeline will come ashore there.
The Americans think
they've won the contract.
That they can just open the tap
and help themselves.
- You'll make a good supervisor.
- That's not what I want. I wanna dive.
I'm talking about
your future opportunities.
When we start pumping the oil.
Of course you'll dive.
It's not up to the physician to decide.
Are you ready?
I'm going back to work.
I'll be back in three weeks.
That's exactly what Knut said.
Let me show you something.
You can turn it off.
Petter! Turn it off!
You hear me?! Shut...
What the hell is wrong with you?
I have to find out what happened.
I have to understand, get it?
- I don't need to know.
- But I do!
That's why I have to go down there.
I'm sorry about your friend. Leif.
We all get what's coming to us.
- Petter? For you.
- Hey, missy! You're a scientist.
Inspect this!
You recently lost your brother
on a similar dive.
How does that affect your work?
I think he'd have wanted me
to go on diving.
I don't really think
it's affected my work.
- Excuse me? Dr. Lindberg called me.
- Leif?
The day before he died.
Wanted to talk about the accident.
Anything else we should know?
Do me a favour and call me
if you remember anything.
Be careful about what
you say to the press.
You heard me.
The gas sample
you're taking in the bell.
Give it to Pia as soon as you're back.
Don't try to get smart.
- Pete? Think you're ready for this?
- What?
You ready for this?
Yeah, you don't think so?
- Petter's going first.
- Fuck you he's going first.
- It's my fucking record, sir.
- This is not about your record, Mike.
We're here to prove
we can build the pipeline.
It's all right, Trond.
Take Phil. I'll tend the bell.
- Just do as you're told, guys.
- This is bullshit.
Open gas supply divers.
Gas open.
Come on, Pete.
Pull yourself together.
Begin to pressurise.
Trond?
I don't feel too good. I'll switch places
with Phillip, and man the bell.
Phillip?
You'll have to do the welding.
I knew you weren't ready.
Okay, guys.
Give me an update on the welding.
Guys?
Phillip?
Mike?
Okay.
How long do you have left?
Should be done in an hour.
Okay.
Ready for your photo, pinup girl?
That's why you're here, right?
To celebrate all the work
we've done for you.
Bet you just had to see me.
- Hi.
- Hi. I couldn't get the sample.
- Why not?
- I didn't have time. No room for it.
- Welcome back. How've you been?
- Alright.
How did Jeger know
about the sample?
Who do you think I work for?
To build the pipeline ourselves,
we need the American gas recipe.
- Were you going to give me the results?
- Yes, of course.
Mike! You know where Ronald is?
I don't know.
Maybe he's still downstairs.
Petter... Petter!
If you have the sample,
give it to me now.
- You risk your life if you keep it.
- I don't have it.
You leaving?
I've proved what they hired me to do.
I've got a sample of your breathing mix.
- Where?
- You tell me what's in it first.
I can get someone to test it.
And I will go public.
- It's a secret. It's how I make my living.
- By drugging us?
Let me show you something, Pete.
At the depths you boys need to work,
the nervous system is affected
by the pressure.
You need an anaesthetic
to work down there.
- Anaesthetic?
- Drug. Call it whatever you like.
You need something to overcome
the effects of that pressure sickness.
I wanna explain why you need
an anaesthetic. Without it, you'd collapse.
We've just passed 500 metres.
The big glass has no anaesthetics.
Which would you rather be?
I collapsed on your drugs.
My brother died.
- You didn't black out because of my gas.
- I know what happened. I saw the tape.
Think about it.
No one else fainted, only you.
Jørgen and your brother were fine
until you caused the explosion.
Jørgen's a mess!
You and Jørgen are affected,
but not Mike.
And Mike's been on my gas
more than anyone.
What does that tell you?
- Why did you take him out?
- To save him from Leif's
misguided experiments. It turned out
to be the right goddamn decision.
Your blackouts were caused here,
by Leif.
He took away my gas, the one thing
that could sustain you.
No one can handle a gas change
like that at 500 metres.
You began hallucinating, remember?
The albatross?
Then you and Jørgen
began having blackouts.
So you're saying what?
That my brain is damaged?
Because of Leif?
Why didn't you tell me?
You sent me down there. You knew.
- You knew!
- I tried to stop you from going down.
I tried to stop you, Pete.
You wouldn't listen to me.
Hey, Pete.
Can you hear me?
What?
You've got something of mine,
and I want it back.
What do you mean?
You know what I mean.
The gas sample will be given to Jeger
if something happens to me.
Hey, son?
This is not a negotiation.
Pete, you're gonna sit there
until you tell me where it is.
Where is it?
Take him down again.
Stop!
Talk to me, son.
- I'll show it to you.
- No. You won't show me.
You're gonna tell me. We're gonna get it.
Then I'm gonna let you out of here.
Where is it, son?
Dammit! Down!
- It really doesn't have to be this hard.
- Move.
- What do you think you're doing?
- You wanna kill him? Do it yourself.
You need him alive, don't you?
He's a stubborn son of a bitch.
- Come and get me when he's out.
- Pete?
Pete, can you hear me?
- I'm bringing you back up.
- What about the decompression?
If you bounce him back this fast,
he might not be around later.
Does he have a pulse? Check
his breathing, I'm gonna go get Ronald.
We had to bounce him right up?
He's got ten minutes before
he gets decompression sickness.
Hey!
Hey! Don't move. Don't move!
It's me, Petter. It's me.
Petter, give me five minutes.
- You can't trust anyone. Leif...
- What did you get to lie?
I didn't do it for the money,
but to help you.
How does it help me if you lie and take
the blame for something you didn't do?
We thought it was your fault.
- I'm not gonna listen to this crap.
- Just hear me out.
They're all in on it.
Does it look like I've
got time to listen to you?
I just came from 100 metres in
the chamber. I'm going into the water
to treat myself for
decompression sickness.
That guy from the Petroleum Directorate,
Jeger, told me exactly what to say.
He got me a plane ticket to Spain,
just to get rid of me. Don't trust him.
Petter?
Ferris tried to kill me.
They tried to kill me.
Hey, hey.
Hush. Hush.
Hi.
Coffee?
No thanks.
Ferris gave me this.
He wanted to avoid
a police investigation.
Why did you accept it?
You wouldn't take my money.
- It's not your responsibility.
- Of course it is.
Would you rather take money from a guy
who's willing to kill me? Is that better?
- How was I supposed to know?
- You must have realised something?
I've realised it's time to look ahead.
Can I take it?
Why?
Hi.
- They found a dead body.
- Yeah.
It was Jørgen.
I've got the gas sample.
I'll give it to you.
- That's the deal, right?
- Yeah.
- As soon as Ferris leaves the country.
- How am I gonna make that happen?
I'm sure you and Jeger can sort it out.
Petter?
The allegations are laughable
but for the damage
they do to my company's reputation.
They're not true.
However, Deep Sea Diving
felt an obligation
to offer compensation
to his widow.
There were no preconditions
to this offer of imbursement.
This is not a business practice
we want in this country.
Trying to bribe relatives like that
is completely unacceptable.
Can you lay the pipeline
without the Americans?
I'm confident we have the necessary
know-how to do the job ourselves.
- What are you looking for?
- I just don't trust you.
Relax. We need you.
I've been named CEO of a new,
state-owned company.
We have to build the pipeline ourselves.
- I need someone who's been down there.
- You need the sample.
The "necessary know-how",
as you call it.
Yeah.
We need you as well.
I want a job as diving supervisor.
- Okay.
- And I want the money.
The cylinder's in the locker room.
My brother's locker.
- Tell Maria we're grateful.
- She expects more than gratitude.
"More than gratitude"?
Her husband, your brother, dived down
to 320 metres. He died there.
He knew it was dangerous,
but he did it - voluntarily.
It was his job.
The locker room.
Knut Jensen's locker.
In twenty years,
when his son grows up...
...he'll grow up in one of
the world's richest countries.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org